Machine Learning Assignment-2

1. Movie Recommendation systems are an example of:
i) Classification
ii) Clustering
iii) Regression
 Options:
a) 2 Only
b) 1 and 2
c) 1 and 3
d) 2 and 3

Answer: a

2. Sentiment Analysis is an example of:
i) Regression
ii) Classification
iii) Clustering
iv) Reinforcement 
Options:
a) 1 Only
b) 1 and 2
c) 1 and 3
d) 1, 2 and 4

Answer: d

3. Can decision trees be used for performing clustering?
a) True
b) False

Answer: a

4. Which of the following is the most appropriate strategy for data cleaning before performing clustering
analysis, given less than desirable number of data points:
i) Capping and flooring of variables
ii) Removal of outliers
Options:
a) 1 only
b) 2 only
c) 1 and 2
d) None of the above

Answer: a

5. What is the minimum no. of variables/ features required to perform clustering?
a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3

Answer: b

6. For two runs of K-Mean clustering is it expected to get same clustering results?
a) Yes
b) No

Answer: b

7. Is it possible that Assignment of observations to clusters does not change between successive
iterations in K-Means?
a) Yes
b) No
c) Can't say
d) None of these

Answer: a

8. Which of the following can act as possible termination conditions in K-Means?
i) For a fixed number of iterations.
ii) Assignment of observations to clusters does not change between iterations. Except for cases 
witha bad local minimum.
iii) Centroids do not change between successive iterations.
iv) Terminate when RSS falls below a threshold.
Options:
a) 1, 3 and 4
b) 1, 2 and 3
c) 1, 2 and 4
d) All of the above

Answer: d

9. Which of the following can act as possible termination conditions in K-Means?
i) K- Means clustering algorithm
ii) Agglomerative clustering algorithm
iii) Expectation-Maximization clustering algorithm
iv) Diverse clustering algorithm
Options:
a) 1 only
b) 2 and 3
c) 2 and 4
d) 1 and 3

Answer: c

10. Which of the following algorithms is most sensitive to outliers?
a) K-means clustering algorithm
b) K-medians clustering algorithm
c) K-modes clustering algorithm
d) K-medoids clustering algorithm

Answer: a

11. How can Clustering (Unsupervised Learning) be used to improve the accuracy of Linear Regression
model (Supervised Learning):
i) Creating different models for different cluster groups.
ii) Creating an input feature for cluster ids as an ordinal variable.
iii) Creating an input feature for cluster centroids as a continuous variable.
iv) Creating an input feature for cluster size as a continuous variable.
Options:
a) 1 only
b) 2 only
c) 3 and 4
d) All of the above

Answer: d

12. What could be the possible reason(s) for producing two different dendrograms using agglomerative
clustering algorithms for the same dataset?
a) Proximity function used
b) of data points used
c) of variables used
d) All of the above

Answer: d

13. Is K sensitive to outliers?

Answer: Yes, K is sensitive to outliers. In K-means tries to optimize the sum of squares. And thus a large deviation (such as of an outlier) gets a lot of weight.Hence we can say that K is sensitive to outlier.

14. Why is K means better?

Answer: There are so many advantages mentioned below which indicates that why K-means is better:
     1. It is easy to implement k-means and identify unknown groups of data from complex data sets. The results are presented in an easy and simple manner.

     2. K-means is suitable for a large number of datasets and it’s computed much faster than the smaller dataset. It can also produce higher clusters.

     3. K-means segmentation is linear in the number of data objects thus increasing execution time. It doesn’t take more time in classifying similar characteristics in data like hierarchical algorithms.

     4. K-means analysis improves clustering accuracy and ensures information about a particular problem domain is available. Modification of the k-means algorithm based on this information improves the accuracy of the clusters.

     5. The results are easy to interpret. It generates cluster descriptions in a form minimized to ease understanding of the data.

15. Is K means a deterministic algorithm?

Answer:Yes
